Reading Questions
Liturgy & Sacraments
Augustine, The City of God, Book X, Chapters 5-6
*Note especially the line I’ve highlighted; it is a key line in understanding what sacraments are.
1.	Does God need anything from us? Who benefits from our sacrifices?
2.	What does God require and not require with regards to sacrifices?
3.	Who offers us as a sacrifice to God? When/where is the Church offered to God? 
Aquinas, Summa Theologiae (see the document I’ve created; I’ve shortened the reading and pulled out the key insights for you)
1.	Aquinas has established in question 64, article 1, that sacraments are a sort of sign. Now he’s wondering in article 4: why are they sensible signs? That is, why are they signs that we can come to know through our senses (e.g., why do we use material things like water, bread, and wine for the sacraments)? How does Aquinas answer this question?
2.	In question 62, article 1, Aquinas is dealing with a question that has been controversial in the history of Christianity (especially around the Protestant Reformation): do the sacraments cause grace, or are they just signs of grace? What kind of causality does Aquinas ascribe to sacraments?
Trent, Sessions 7 & 22
1.	Keep in mind that those gathered for the Council of Trent were responding to the Protestant Reformers and their claims regarding the sacraments. For example, many Protestants claimed that only two sacraments were found in the Bible (baptism & Eucharist) and the rest were invented by the Church over the passing of time. The Reformers (especially Zwingli) also claimed that the sacraments were not causes of grace, but rather mere signs of God’s grace. What appear to have been the beliefs of some Protestants regarding baptism, based solely on Trent’s reaction?
2.	Session 22 is focused on the Mass and whether or not it is a sacrifice. This was also a point of controversy with the Protestant Reformers, who claimed that Christ was sacrificed on the Cross once for all, and therefore it made to sense to speak of Christ being sacrificed again at every Mass. According to this document, in what way did Christ offer his body in sacrifice to the Father before even dying on the Cross? In what way did he ask that this form of sacrifice be repeated?
3.	According to Session 22, Chapter 5, what is the point of all the “bells and whistles” at a Catholic Mass?
CCC 1066-1075, 1210-1213, 1322-1323
1.	Explain what it means that the liturgy is both the source and the summit of the life of Catholics. Is the liturgy all there is in Catholic life?
Roman Missal, Eucharistic Prayer II
This is one of the actual prayers said by a Catholic priest during Mass. It is the Eucharistic Prayer, the central and most important prayer of the whole Catholic Mass. It is during this prayer (and due to its being said) that Catholics believe the bread and wine become the Body and Blood of Jesus. 
1.	The word Eucharist means thanksgiving, and in some sense the whole Catholic Mass is one long prayer of thanks to God. But the beginning of the Eucharistic prayer is especially so; it is a part called the preface, and it is dedicated to thanking God. For what does this preface thank God?
2.	After acclaiming all together the holiness of God, the priest then calls the Holy Spirit down upon the bread and the wine to sanctify them, a part called the epiclesis. What words does the priest say, and what gesture does he do to symbolize this descent of the Holy Spirit?
3.	Next come the most important words of the whole Mass: the words of consecration, the words Jesus said at the Last Supper regarding the bread and wine that had become his Body and Blood. When the priest says the actual words said by Jesus, does he say them in first or third person? 
4.	The prayer then recalls the great things Jesus has done (Death and Resurrection), asks God to accept this sacrifice, and then there is another epiclesis that asks the Holy Spirit to again come down—but this time, who is it to come upon, and what role is it to serve?
5.	The prayer now turns to praying to God for certain people. Who does the priest pray for?
